:warning: Work in Progress

# DHIS2 Core API Specification

The DHIS2 Core API Specification document is available for viewing via github
pages, here:

[DHIS 2 OpenAPI Specification](https://dhis2.github.io/dhis2-api-specification/)

This default view is based on [ReDoc](https://github.com/Rebilly/ReDoc). An
alternative view, based on [Swagger-UI](https://github.com/jensoleg/swagger-ui)
is available here: [DHIS 2 API Swagger-UI View](https://dhis2.github.io/dhis2-api-specification/swagger-ui/)

## Structure

The specification document itself is here: ``` /docs/spec/openapi.json ```

> **Please DO NOT edit the specification file directly**

The source files have been split up to make them a little easier to work with
(hopefully).

```
docs/spec
├── openapi.json
└── src
    ├── base_openapi.json
    ├── components_openapi.json
    ├── info_openapi.json
    ├── paths_openapi.json
    ├── tagGroups_openapi.json
    └── tags_openapi.json
```

The starting point is `/docs/spec/src/base_openapi.json`, which uses JSON
references to include files for different elements.

Each source file has the full mandatory structure of an OpenAPI specification
(to support linting) and ends with *openapi.json, to support recognition in vs
code.

There are a variety of "API editors" out there, but it may be most effective
simply to use your favourite editor, which often support linting of the
specification, and also have advances features for working with JSON files.

The single spec file is generated by combining the source files with a simple
python script.

```  cd tools/python source setup_venv python3 combine.py ```

*It is also possible to create a single file by running something like json-refs
*against the base_openapi.json.*

## Status

The specification should be considered a very draft version at the moment.

In particular.

 - It contains mainly Metadata endpoints. (most other endpoints are not yet
   included). The endpoints themselves still contain several inconsistencies and
   are not fully tested.

> **Granular Status:** An indicator is appended to the summary text for each
> endpoint/method combination to indicate the   status of development of the
> specification. Suggested indicator values are: >`[DRAFT]` , `[REVIEW]` ,
> `[VALIDATED]`
